this is a tiny tiny nation in Southeast
Asia and they finally pass legislation
that will not just discourage
homosexuality but that will discourage
it with the death penalty
at the end of World War two when most of
the fundamental assumptions governing
the United Nations were created and to
some extent codified in laws policies
charters and what-have-you
at the end of World War two there was no
nation state in the world
that felt it was their business or their
responsibility to boss around the other
nation-states to get them to protect gay
rights to prevent homosexuals from being
persecuted and now in 2019 it's a very
fundamental very important assumption
that we don't know what to do with they
all just sit there with their mouths
open apoplectic as the decades go by and
they do nothing about the fact that
there are 70 nations 77 0 70 different
countries that are members of the UN
right now make homosexuality illegal the
Sultan is publicly enforcing harsh
Islamic law but privately he leads a
life of opulence and decadence in his
small oil-rich nation it is a great
pleasure to welcome my good friend His
Majesty the Sultan of Brunei our
militaries that are extraordinarily
capable and the bilateral military
relationship between the United States
and Brunei has the capacity to help
people in times of need and to try to
help avoid conflict rather than start
problems he has according to reports at
least 150 homes
he owns almost 20 aircraft he has
something like seven to nine thousand
cars hundreds of thousands of suits and
millions of dollars in in artwork he is
a key leader in the Southeast Asian
region but also widely respected around
the world it's hypocritical because he's
talking about living humbly by the
tenets of Islam and yet he is of course
one of the most fabulously probably the
most fabulously wealthy person on earth
and certainly the most materialistic
person on earth
my understand is tomorrow he's going to
have an opportunity to take his family
up to New York
where we're going to encourage him to do
some shopping because we want to
continue to strengthen the US economy
the human rights paradigm raises more
questions than answers but that makes it
all the more important that we do with
due diligence ask those questions and
come to new conclusions both in a
reference to particular controversies
that may arise in the news and in
reference to the changing cultural
assumptions of our generation at the end
of World War two when most of the
fundamental assumptions governing the
United Nations were created and to some
extent codified in laws policies
charters and what-have-you at the end of
World War two
there was no nation state in the world
that felt it was their business or their
responsibility to boss around the other
nation states to get them to protect gay
rights to prevent homosexuals from being
persecuted and now in 2019 it's a very
fundamental very important assumption
that we don't know what to do with it's
pathetic
politicians celebrity activists national
governments and United Nations agencies
they all just sit there with their
mouths open apoplectic as the decades go
by and they do nothing about the fact
that there are 70 nations 77 0 70
different countries that are members of
the UN right now make homosexuality
illegal and the particular example we
are discussing today the particular
example that today is the most important
controversy for the newspapers to talk
about and that sadly will disappear from
the newspapers in two weeks
the important example today is the bad
news from Brunei for an eye however you
want to pronounce it this is a tiny tiny
nation in Southeast Asia and they
finally pass legislation that will not
just discourage homosexuality but that
will discourage it with the death
penalty homosexuality will be treated as
a death-penalty offense henceforth in
Brunei
now who do you expect to do something
about this do you expect there to be
sanctions imposed by a neighboring state
like um Indonesia or Malaysia or the
Philippines do you think that those
countries are going to impose sanctions
on Brunei equivalent to the type of
sanctions that are imposed against North
Korea Iran sanctions that are imposed
around the world to encourage political
change encourage policy reform or
encourage regime change whatever the
objectives of those those policies may
be um the types of sanctions that of
course are taken for granted with a tiny
powerless nation like Cuba
Cuba's face sanctions were so long and
they failed to bring about political
change but nevertheless nevertheless
there's no real risk for foreign powers
in demonstrating their moral superiority
over our country like brunei and there's
a certain pragmatic school of thought
that says hey even if we wouldn't stand
up on a moral and ethical issue when the
powerful nation we're standing up to is
russia or china at the united states
america even if we don't have the luxury
of standing up for human rights when the
risks are too great when the
consequences are too grave that it
nevertheless is important and meaningful
for the united nations and national
governments in the world to take that
stand to impose negative consequences
for negative policy choices when they
can to make an example out of brunei
even if you're not going to consistently
enforce this human rights standard or
policy around the world equally but but
nobody's even gonna do that are they
there is no whisper of a possibility
that the United Nations will stand up
and and change the world
right
so the question we have to start to ask
is why does the United Nations even
exist when did our expectations of the
United Nations get so low that we don't
expect them to stand up and make a
decisive difference in any conflict
anywhere around the world on any human
rights issue anywhere in the world and I
understand there's a great fear amongst
governments that if the United Nations
actually starts carrying out the Human
Rights mandate that it was created to
pursue it's gonna result in a kind of
tyranny of objective standards being
imposed where local subjective cultural
standards don't match up with those
objective expectations if today you
impose on a Muslim nation the
expectation that they should treat
homosexuals as equals that homosexuality
should be a protected normal form of
sexual behavior
well what about circumcision what about
circumcision in Christian countries in
Jewish countries don't we know as a
scientific fact that circumcision is an
injury inflicted on a child don't we
know that this is a barbaric religious
tradition that really harms people in an
objectively real way when you take away
the cultural accretions of centuries and
you look at it objectively and
scientifically
isn't this something that ought to be
illegal to protect the rights of the
child or something that if it is legal
you should only be allowed to do once
you turn 18 once you can make the legal
decision yourself to have a surgeon cut
off part of your penis or cut off party
or vagina isn't that a kind of
self-evident legal and political
challenge that somebody should be
responsible to referee music referee is
a verb here if not the United Nations
then who right
you can't expect Malaysia to scrutinize
beyond this you can't expect Indonesia
you can't expect the Philippines who's
the referee here who is standing up to
draw these lines and
these questions and push the whole world
forward toward some kind of progress
whether you define that in terms of
human rights or not I've lived through
an incredibly bleak and depressing time
in terms of international politics I
lived through the worldwide
disappointment about humanitarian
intervention in Yugoslavia Yugoslavia
Kosovo that whole mess I lived through
the disaster of United Nations
intervention well the very end of it in
Cambodia completely it's long story
anyone else here old enough to remember
United Nations intervention in in East
Timor
how about Haiti how many how many United
Nations interventions in Haiti and how
many went horribly wrong did I did I
mention Rwanda Rwandan massacres Rwanda
genocide no no when I was a kid in the
the Bill Clinton era there was this
doctrine that was really popular in the
press and amongst career politicians and
they they called it r2p so capital
letter are the number two and then the
letter P and they called it
responsibility to protect and it was
this idea that anywhere in the world
that there was a serious violation of
human rights that there were war crimes
going on that basically United Nations
military that's what we're typing about
should intervene there was a
responsibility to protect human lives
and now of that were taken seriously
every country in the world that has the
death penalty for homosexuality you
should have some kind of interventions
and if you're not going to have a
military intervention of course you
should have trade sanctions you should
have some kind of at least symbolic
punishment from the United Nations
whether its economic or whether you just
lower their flag why not have the flag
at half-mast for all the countries that
are fundamentally violating all these
human rights all the time would that
require so much heroism on the part of
our our politicians my point is here on
the one hand the United Nations was
created with a set of expectations that
really people in power would be afraid
to pursue in an honest overt
thoroughgoing
manner the human rights doctrine none of
them really want to try to rigorously
enforce or even really talk about what
would human rights mean if we applied it
seriously to the current situation in
Ukraine what would any of the United
Nations principles mean no just you know
yeah Syria these are really tough
conflicts right so it's been agreed
especially after a long series of
Fiasco's and disasters again whichever
one stand out your mind whether it's
Rwanda kam
what happened in Yugoslavia it's been
agreed upon as a kind of silent
consensus that the United Nations should
do as little as possible all of the time
what hasn't been agreed upon is the
budget for doing as little as possible
currently expenditures by the United
Nations are at 50 billion per annum
that's a real number you understand five
zero fifty billion US dollars fifty
billion u.s. dollars per annum
peacekeeping operations those are
military interventions don't kid
yourself peacekeeping operations I have
approximately eight point nine billion
dollar dollar budget okay those guys
don't just talk um I don't know World
Food Program 5.3 billion United Nations
Development Program four point seven
billion goes on and on and adds up to
over fifty billion u.s. dollars so are
you telling me that this organization
with a budget that is so big it cannot
be fathomed and really no democratic
accountability no transparency none zero
completely elitist top-down organization
created to pursue the ideals of that
period at the end of World War two had
the the four freedoms doctrine for the
United States where everyone said hey
hey hey all these terrible things that
happened during World War two never
again we're going to create this
doctrine of human rights and this very
well-funded agency it's gonna force it
are you telling me that the united
nations of the fifty billion dollar
budget is powerless against the tiny
nation of brunei population four hundred
thousand and if they're not powerless
why is it that nobody I mean sorry I
looked at the New York Times coverage o
de Tocqueville I looked at several
different articles covering this nobody
is even discussing the remote
possibility that anything
is going to happen and again if if that
impetus for change if that power of
suasion is not put upon brunei by the
united nations who do you think is going
to do it all of these people are paid
more than the highest-paid staff at any
national agency the United Nations was
founded with that mandate by definition
if you're if you work in economics
within the United Nations you will be
paid more than someone in any government
in the world in the highest paid
government world who has a comparable
position in terms of responsibilities or
research that's the way salaries are set
in a nation they were founded with this
mandate that they would pay all of their
staff more than any national government
with him they obeyed huge amounts of
money there is no possibility that
nobody even even in reporting on this
nobody even conceives of the possibility
that one the United Nations will solve
the problem or two that the United
Nations will make some kind of decision
to change the situation fundamentally
they are not risking their own
reputation their fate their their
political careers are not in any way
attached to the success or failure of
outcomes whether those are human rights
outcomes or democratic outcomes or I
don't know just a project to make the
world a better place
there's no sense in which their career
or their reputation there's no sense in
which there can be positive or negative
consequences for them linked to these
projects the United Nations in parks
month and maybe that's why again and
again the outcomes of UN projects are so
underwhelming right they're not
answerable to a public democratically
they're not even answerable to a set of
objective standards like human rights
that would say hey guess what guys it
might be politically convenient to get
along with Russia it might be
politically meaning to get along with
China might even be politically
convenient to get along with Brunei this
tiny country that just made
homosexuality death-penalty offense
but political convenience isn't what
we're answerable to we have this
objective list of facts that define
what's democracy and what's not what's
human rights and what's not what's
acceptable what's an acceptable and then
we have to enforce those standards then
they'd be more like a law enforcement
agency and less like a pseudo democratic
government with a Council of people
debating what policy should be right our
expectations of the UN have been lowered
to such an unfathomable extent that we
neither expect them to do anything
decisive in relation to a more abstract
matter of principle like gay rights in
muslim-majority countries nor do we
expect anything to change anything
decisive to happen in a situation where
it's incredibly ethically simple
children are starving and you the United
Nations have been handing out sacks of
rice with the World Food Programme logo
for decades and you haven't been
achieving your goals you failed and sure
it's not all your fault it's also the
fault of the communist government of
Laos but who then is going to put
pressure on the government of house to
reform and change is it going to be
Vietnam is it gonna be Cambodia is it
gonna be Communist China next door are
they gonna say hey we're gonna put
sanctions on you we're gonna put your
flag at half-mast we're gonna log E and
pressure you to come into the 21st
century and start living up to these
human rights standards and start doing a
better job providing opportunities or
even just food for your own people
No the impetus for change positive
change whether you call it human rights
or call it something else has to come
from somewhere I'd love it if it came
from the grassroots but the pathetic
reality in 2019 is it's coming from
celebrity activists like George Clooney
and nowhere else
nowhere else no one else
there's a better chance that two months
from now George Clooney and his little
movement for gay rights is going to be
making a big difference in the world
it's a better chance of that then there
was a chance of anything coming from the
United Nations or any other federal
international institution
[Music]